Louisiana State Plumbing Code (LSPC)

The official title for the plumbing regulations adopted by the Department of Health and Hospitals, Office of Public Health in Louisiana, also referred to as "this code" or "this Part."


Part XIV (Plumbing) of the Sanitary Code, State of Louisiana (LAC 51:XIV)

The specific section of the Sanitary Code that deals with plumbing, adopted by the Department of Health and Hospitals, Office of Public Health.


Department of Health and Hospitals, Office of Public Health

The agency responsible for adopting and promulgating the Louisiana State Plumbing Code.


R.S. 36:258(B)

The primary legal document that grants the authority for the Sanitary Code's promulgation.


Chapters 1 and 4 of Title 40 of the Louisiana Revised Statutes

Additional legal chapters that contain specific provisions related to the Sanitary Code.


R.S. 40:4(A)(7) and R.S. 40:5(2)(3)(7)(9)(16)(17)(20)

The specific legal references under which the Louisiana State Plumbing Code (this Part) was promulgated.


LR 28:1383 (June 2002)

The initial publication record of the Louisiana State Plumbing Code in the Louisiana Register, including the date.


LR 38:2795 (November 2012)

The record of when the Louisiana State Plumbing Code was last officially updated or changed.

What is the LSPC?


The Louisiana State Plumbing Code (LSPC) is Part XIV (Plumbing) of the Sanitary Code, State of Louisiana.

Who adopts the LSPC?


The Department of Health and Hospitals, Office of Public Health, adopts Part XIV (Plumbing) of the Sanitary Code.

What is another name for the "Louisiana State Plumbing Code"?


It is also known as "this code," "this Part," or "Part XIV (Plumbing) of the Sanitary Code, State of Louisiana."

What is the primary authority for the sanitary code's promulgation?


The first source of authority for promulgating the sanitary code is R.S. 36:258(B).

When was the LSPC originally promulgated and amended?


It was promulgated in June 2002 and amended in November 2012 by the Department of Health and Hospitals, Office of Public Health.


